Clean edit pass on attributes (#44513)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/attributes/pseudo-attributes.md

---
title: "Attributes interpreted by the compiler: Pseudo-attributes"
ms.date: 01/2/2025
description: "Learn about attributes you can add to code that are written to IL as modifiers. These custom attributes aren't emitted as attributes in the compiled output."
---
# Custom attributes that generate flags or options in the Intermediate Language (IL) output

> You add these attributes to your code for the compiler to emit specified Intermediate Language (IL) modifier. These attributes instruct the compiler to include the corresponding IL modifier in the output. These IL modifiers can be controlled in C# using these attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You add these attributes to your code for the compiler to emit a specified Intermediate Language (IL) modifier. These attributes instruct the compiler to include the corresponding IL modifier in the output.
```

Reviewer: Seemed a bit repetitive so I removed the last sentence.

> - <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComImportAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the `import` modifier.

Reviewer: This might be nice as a table with the attribute in one column, the modifier in the second, and perhaps comments in a third column. Just a suggestion though.

- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the `pinvokeimpl` modifier. You can add options listed in the constructor.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.FieldOffsetAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the `.field` offset modifier.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute>: Specifies the IL `marshal` modifier. You can set options listed in the constructor.

> 4- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.MethodImplAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: maps to the IL `flag` modifier. Constructor arguments specify specific named flags such as `aggressiveinlining` or `forwardref`. These flags also specify the `native`, `managed`, or `optil` modifiers for the <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.MethodCodeType?displayProperty=fullName> field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.MethodImplAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Maps to the IL `flag` modifier. Constructor arguments specify specific named flags such as `aggressiveinlining` or `forwardref`. These flags also specify the `native`, `managed`, or `optil` modifiers for the <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.MethodCodeType?displayProperty=fullName> field.
```

- <xref:System.NonSerializedAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the IL `notserialized` modifier.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.OptionalAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the IL `[opt]` modifier.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.OutAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the IL `[out]` modifier.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.PreserveSigAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the IL `preservesig` modifier.
- <xref:System.SerializableAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the IL `serializable` modifier.
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.StructLayoutAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the IL `auto`, `sequential`, or `explicit` modifiers. Layout options can be set using the parameters.
- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.IndexerNameAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: You add this attribute to an indexer to set a different method name. By default, indexers are compiled to a property named `Item`. You can specify a different name using this attribute.

Some of these custom attributes are applied using other C# syntax rather than adding the attribute to your source code.

> - <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DefaultParameterValueAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the default value for the parameter. Use the [default parameter syntax](../../methods.md#optional-parameters-and-arguments)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DefaultParameterValueAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the default value for the parameter. Use the [default parameter syntax](../../methods.md#optional-parameters-and-arguments).
```

- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.InAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the IL `[in]` modifier. Use the [`in`](../keywords/method-parameters.md#in-parameter-modifier) or [`ref readonly`](../keywords/method-parameters.md#ref-readonly-modifier).

> - <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.SpecialNameAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: Specifies the IL `specialname` modifier. The compiler automatically uses the for methods that require the `specialname` modifier.

Reviewer: "the for methods" is correct?

> - <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallersOnlyAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType>: This attribute is required for the `delegate*` feature. The compiler adds it to any [`delegate*`](../unsafe-code.md#function-pointers) requires its use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallersOnlyAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType>: This attribute is required for the `delegate*` feature. The compiler adds it to any [`delegate*`](../unsafe-code.md#function-pointers) that requires its use.
```

- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.IsByRefLikeAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: This attribute specifies a `ref` struct.
- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.IsReadOnlyAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: This attribute indicates that a parameter has the `in` modifier. It distinguishes `in` parameters from `readonly ref` or `[In] ref`.
- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.RequiresLocationAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: This attribute indicates that a parameter has the `readonly ref` modifier. It distinguishes `readonly ref` from `in` or `[In] ref`.
- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.IsUnmanagedAttribute?displayProperty=fullName> - This attribute specifies the `unmanaged` constraint on a type parameter.
- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.NullableAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>, <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.NullableContextAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>, <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.NullablePublicOnlyAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: These attributes encode nullable annotations in your source code.
- <xref:System.ParamArrayAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: This attribute encodes the `params` modifier on array parameters.

> - <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.ParamCollectionAttribute?displayProperty=fullName> This attribute encodes the `params` on non-array parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.ParamCollectionAttribute?displayProperty=fullName> This attribute encodes the `params` modifier on non-array parameters.
```

- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.RefSafetyRulesAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: This attribute specifies the C# version that is required in order to understand ref safety annotations in the assembly. Ref safety rules evolve as C# gets new features.
- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.RequiredMemberAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: This attribute indicates that the `required` modifier was placed on a member declaration. It's the encoding of the [required members](../keywords/required.md) language feature.
- <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.TupleElementNamesAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>: This attribute encodes tuple element names used in signatures.

> In addition, the compiler can generate a declaration for other attributes used internally. For this reason, you should assume other attributes in the <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices> namespace. Some aren't in the .NET Runtime. Instead, the compiler synthesizes a definition for an `internal` type declaration in any assembly where the attribute is needed.

Reviewer: Second sentence is incomplete.

| <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.ComImportAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>    | `import`        |           |
| <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>    | `pinvokeimpl`   | You can add options listed in the constructor. |
| <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.FieldOffsetAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>  | `.field`        | This sets the field offset for memory layout.  |
| <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute>                             | `marshal`       | You can set options listed in the constructor. |
| <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.MethodImplAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>  | `flag`          | Constructor arguments specify specific named flags such as `aggressiveinlining` or `forwardref`. These flags also specify the `native`, `managed`, or `optil` modifiers for the <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.MethodCodeType?displayProperty=fullName> field. |
| <xref:System.NonSerializedAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>                        | `notserialized` |           |
| <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.OptionalAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>     | `[opt]`         |           |

> | <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.OutAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>          | `[out]`         |           |

Reviewer 2: This one could have a note parallel to the note added for `in`, saying "Use the `out` modifier."

Some of these custom attributes are applied using other C# syntax rather than adding the attribute to your source code.

| Attribute                                                                                        | Comments |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DefaultParameterValueAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>    | Specifies the default value for the parameter. Use the [default parameter syntax](../../methods.md#optional-parameters-and-arguments). |
| <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.InAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>                       | Specifies the IL `[in]` modifier. Use the [`in`](../keywords/method-parameters.md#in-parameter-modifier) or [`ref readonly`](../keywords/method-parameters.md#ref-readonly-modifier). |
| <xref:System.Runtime.CompilerServices.SpecialNameAttribute?displayProperty=fullName>             | Specifies the IL `specialname` modifier. The compiler automatically adds this modifier for methods that require it. |

> | <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallersOnlyAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType> | This attribute is required for the `delegate*` feature. The compiler adds it to any [`delegate*`](../unsafe-code.md#function-pointers) that requires its use. |

Reviewer 2: `[UnmanagedCallersOnly]` is actually something the user must apply in code in order to use the `unmanaged` calling convention specifically with the `delegate*` feature:

```cs
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

unsafe
{
    delegate* unmanaged<void> someFuncPointer = &SomeMethod;
}

[UnmanagedCallersOnly] // Compilation fails if this is removed
static void SomeMethod() { }
```

> The following custom attributes are generally disallowed in C# source. They're listed here to aid library authors who use reflection, and to ensure you don't create custom attributes with the same name.

Reviewer 2: Though, creating custom attributes with the same name in a different namespace is okay, and custom attributes don't go in the System namespace.
